in the occupied West Bank the
displacement of dozens of Palestinian
communities is also raising concerns
with violent attacks by Israeli settlers
on the rise at the same time the Israeli
government is declaring more and more
land there as Israeli state-owned since
the Hamas terrorist attacks on October
7th Israel has reclassified 1,100
hectares in the West Bank as Israeli
state land and from there Rebecca
ritters sent us this report
H for bhan basharat everyday life has
become a struggle the ban Shepherd has
been grazing his herds in these Hills
for decades on lands his father and
grandfather grazed too but lately his
livelihood and family tradition is
coming under increased
threat for two three or four months on a
daily basis we have been experiencing
violent assaults it is not possible to
sleep at night fearing for our children
we under constant threat and at any
moment we could get killed we could have
our houses and cabins burnt we could be
displaced the threat comes from settler
violence boran's encampment is
surrounded on one side by an Israeli
settlement considered illegal under
international law and on another by an
outpost an informal settlement
considered illegal even under Israeli
law Boran says lately it feels as though
they're closing
in after October 7th they stabbed
someone with a knife in elali burned
houses they attacked and confiscated
livestock one of the farmers from defle
who got his lifestock confiscated had to
pay around 40,000 shels for
it livestock theft is not uncommon
according to Israeli liberal newspaper
heds more than 500 goats and sheep have
been stolen by armed Israeli settlers in
recent months some times in military
uniform even more common than theft
though is violence and
intimidation scenes like these are a
regular occurrence all over the West
Bank and the intimidation is working
since the October 7th terror attack
settlers have forcibly displaced people
from at least 20 hering communities and
entirely uprooted another seven the
Israeli military is supposed to protect
pales Ians living here but a report by
Human Rights Watch has found the
military is either failing to do so or
is directly involved in the
violence Israeli volunteer activists
have stepped up their work in an effort
to keep communities safe the protective
presence started right after October 7
communities were extremely threatened by
settlers visits and
harassment so we we have we had to start
coming in the nights when we are there
much less is happening the activists say
settler violence is part of an
unofficial but deliberate Israeli policy
to take land is but there's another
official way too when they are declaring
an area in statel land draw edas is the
founder of km navat an organization
engaged in monitoring and researching
Israeli land policy in the West
Bank he says the reclassification of
land is one of the main methods by which
Israel seeks to assert control over land
in the occupied territories basically
they had survey this area they were
supposed to survey this area and to
reach the conclusion that this area was
not cultivated mhm and if it was not
cultivated for certain amount of years
so then they assume that it's stat land
and is Israel has a right to run this
land so you can assume that this area
which had been declared is going to is
going to go to a body which is related
to the Israeli suon Enterprise an
Enterprise the government is actively
working to promote when reclassifying
the biggest pocket of land in decades
Finance Minister betel smotr said the
move was an important and strategic
issue while there are those in Israel
and in the world he said who seek to
undermine our right to Judea and Samaria
we promote settlement through hard work
and in a strategic manner all over the
country this year more than 1100
hectares of land has been reclassified
as state land this is directly related
to to the political climate they are
doing it now in order to convey a
message we will do whatever we want we
are decisive to go on with the Israeli
annexation of the West Bank and there's
no legal way that Palestinian can fight
this not the Palestinian Authority not a
practical one despite the challenges
bhan is determined to try to hold on to
his
land there's no justification so I am
living here in my land right these
settlers what business do they have here
in my land I have a title to this land
what do they want from me where should I
go he hopes increased International
pressure will help save his land for
future
generations and we can now speak to T
Hinrich she's a spokesperson for the
office of the Israeli Prime Minister
welcome T thank you so much for making
time to come on DW today now settler
violence in the West Bank has seen a
dramatic spike in recent months Israel
has security control over most of the
West Bank what does prime minister
Netanyahu intend to do to stop the
violence well thank you for having me on
Nicole uh actually the numbers that I
saw the numbers that I'm familiar with
with uh show a decrease in this already
marginal phenomena that of course the
Prime Minister has condemned uh the
Prime Minister said on multiple
occasions that nobody in Israel nobody
should be taking the Law into their own
hands and if someone does that we
prosecute no matter their religious
affiliation uh no matter where they live
uh of course uh and the Prime Minister
has said it repeatedly time and again
but uh what we should uh uh uh what we
should bring to light here is the is the
the fact that this is a marginal
phenomena the the the overwhelming
majority of the so-called settler
Community Israelis Israeli Jews living
in Judea and Samaria we're talking about
more than 500,000 people are law-abiding
citizens so uh don't mistake the the
exception for for the rule here and the
fact of the matter is that currently and
historically the Arab on Jewish violence
in Judea and Samaria the so-called West
Bank is is in much much higher numbers
than the other way around even though
media reporting does not reflect it we
have seen 500 Palestinians killed as
part of settler violence since October
7th and the truth of the matter is that
an overwhelming majority of settler
attacks go unpunished why is
that I'm not familiar with these numbers
these are not numbers that I can
confirm what are the numbers that you
know what I I want to I want to add
something important here about numbers
again I I'm not sure where you're taking
the numbers uh from but
um sometimes and you know I've seen un
reports for example about this phenomena
so-called of settler violence which it
does exist it's a marginal phenomena and
and we fight it um but uh International
reports like like a un one that was
issued a few months ago they don't use
real numbers because they take
Palestinian as salant for example that
commit crimes and and Carry Out violence
against Jews in Judea and Samaria and
they put them as victims of so-called
sex settler violence in the in these
reports so these numbers are not
accurate the numbers the numbers that we
have come from Watchdogs who've been
observing the situation for for quite
some time but let's not get hung up on
this then I do want to move on because
we did meet in the report that we just
saw some people who are acutely affected
by what you say is a marginal phenomenon
it does affect them in their everyday
life how do you expect Palestinians who
are expected to react when they are
attacked on their
land well I speak for the Israeli Prime
Minister's office I don't speak uh uh to
you know Palestinians uh what I can tell
you is how the Prime Minister and how
the government views uh this uh marginal
phenomena that we of course take
seriously and nobody nobody should be
taking the law to their own hands we
prosecute as I said um if if there's any
wrongdoing that we recognize of
course many many social and political
scientists have found that experiences
of trauma and violence increase the
chances of radicalization now you say
that you you go after the perpetrators
of uh violence in the occupied
territories but how aware um is the
Netanyahu government of settler violence
fostering mindsets that could in turn
pose a risk to Israel's
security I'm not sure I I follow your
question uh 100% here question line here
um but uh obviously again if if there's
any breaking of the law um we're we're
against it
obviously but there are numbers I think
it is about 94% of settler attacks that
go unpunished why is that
again I'm not familiar with these
numbers all right then let's uh move on
um the US of course Israel's staunchest
Ally they are opposed to settlement
expansion um there are parts of the
Israeli government that are very much in
favor of settlement expansion the US
says uh Anthony blinkin recently said it
again that new settlements are
counterproductive to reach enduring
peace and weaken Israel's security what
do you say to
that so uh let's set the record straight
here on a few things uh Jewish presence
in Judea and Samaria uh the place from
which Jews come from you know Jews come
from Judea uh it does not go against
international law as long as you don't
twist the law to fit your political
views uh Judea and Samaria are rightful
parts of uh you know our Jewish homeland
the biblical Heartland and Jewish
presence was you know evident there for
more than 3,000 years now Jews have
rights to reside there
alongside uh Arab commun Palestinian
Arab communities there's no question
about it but settlements are not the
main impediment to peace if someone
thinks having Jewish neighbors is the
main essence of the Israeli Palestinian
conflict well they're they're dead wrong
uh Nicole because the real impediment to
peace between Israelis and Palestinians
let's put it right here on the table uh
is the Palestinian refusal to uh
recognize to acknowledge the very
existence of the legitimacy of a Jewish
State and Palestinian terrorism um if
someone is really interested uh uh you
know in promoting peace and inquiring as
for why there's no peace these are the
questions that they should be asking how
come the Palestinians have refused every
peace offer since
1937 and up until you know uh recent
times how come they started every
conflict lost it only to cry victim and
perpetuate a conflict how come Terror
infrastructure and Terror ammunition are
found in every almost in every
Palestinian school every Palestinian
home that's what our forces are
discovering in Gaza so we you and I can
sit here and talk about settlements but
that's not the essence of the conflict
let's look at uh the war in Gaza which
continues of course and and you know it
is widely acknowledged by by many many
uh people that the settlements in the
West Bank among others do breach
international law but let's look at the
at the conflict that that we've been
focusing on for for the past months ever
since the October 7th Terror attacks um
prime minister nany called the truce
proposal that uh was presented by
President Biden last week partial so
what does netanyahu's plan for peace
look like what did Biden
Miss well uh to make things clear uh we
have set three War objectives right
after the October 7th Massacre we said
that we want to dismantle Hamas as a
governing body political body in in the
Gaza Strip and as a military Wing to
make sure that they will no longer have
the military capabilities no that nor
the desire to attack us again after this
war
a the second goal is of course to uh
bring all our hostages the stolen people
back home and to make sure that Gaza
will never ever pose a terror threat to
us again now Israel like President Biden
said has put on the table very generous
proposals that were rejected time and
again uh by Hamas because they're not
interested in releasing hostages so far
they haven't been uh uh serious about
these negotiations in recent weeks as as
you know um but the claims that we agree
agreed to a ceasefire proposal that will
not meet our conditions I mean the these
are incorrect these are false claims uh
we will not agree to any kind of a
ceasefire a permanent ceasefire I'm I'm
I'm talking about uh that would leave
Hamas in power and some hostages in Gaza
all right we have spoken over the past
months ever since October 7th to
countless um experts who say that
Netanyahu appears to be more interested
um in staying in power than an actual
reaching um a lasting peace now would he
be willing to risk his government
falling apart if it meant an end to the
war and a return of the
hostages well I just uh stated three War
objective that the Prime Minister and
honestly every Israeli almost every
Israeli and overwhelming majority of
people in my country are eager to
achieve there will be no compromise on
our security uh this is not about a
political Survival by the way Nicole
this is about the survival of uh the
nation of Israel Jews Christians Muslims
who refuse to Simply die in the hands of
a terrorist organization so we will
continue to plow on in in Gaza and make
sure that our goals are reached if it
would mean that he would have to risk
his governing Coalition would he agree
to a deal that could lead to that
end I I again this is not what what's on
the table right now we're not dealing
with politics uh very few few uh people
in my country in fact are dealing with
politics right now because what I told M
of his Coalition have said that they
would not they would not stay in the
Coalition if the deal that was presented
by Joe Biden for example were to go
through well but what I am saying is
that the the deal that was presented is
is not 100% accurate because as the
Prime Minister said in recent days um we
will not agree to a ceasefire that would
leave some hostage in Gaza and Kamas in
power so we're not talking about a
permanent ceasefire here the terms of
the the the recent deal that were
discussed in the nature of the talks is
not something that I can discuss on air
with you but I can guarantee to you uh
that there's no notion of a SE of a
permanent ceasefire that would leave
Hamas in power that is T hin Expos
person for the Israeli Prime Minister
thank you so
much thank you